---
layout: post
title: ION - Xinglong Xu
---
Work: rabies tracing

Topic: brain-wide input connection, auditory cortex, projection-specific, Cortical-Cortical, Cortical-Subcortical



We studied the subgroup of auditory neurons found they are differently involved in perception and choice in 2AFC tasks, specifically **Cortical – Cortical (CC)** projecting neurons are more involved in sensory information processing, while **Cortical – Subcortical (CS)** projecting neurons are more related with choice information. Therefore, we wonder if the difference could be attributed to the input pattern differences.

I performed **rabies tracing** on the two subpopulations. For CS neurons, wildtype animals are used. Cav-cre, AAV-Flex-mCherry-TVA-2A-G are injected in superior colliculus, auditory cortex, respectively. Two weeks later, Rabies-dG-GFP-EnvA was injected in the same site in Auditory Cortex. For the first time, I took the courage to leave the comfort zone of 'dry labs', and got my hands 'wet'. To perform the tracing, multiple injections were required for every single animal, therefore the surgery was more prone to failures. I succeeded in collecting data from 12 mice. Preliminary result dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) neurons project more to CC neurons, while input from cingulate/retrosplenial cortex(Cg/RS) neurons is more received by CS neurons. The difference in anatomy may help explain their difference in information coding and functionality in sensory-choice 2AFC tasks.